# 理解哈希表


## 概述

hash table

hash table 是一组元素的集合，它的特点是：查找操作的复杂度为 O(1)。hash table 的每个位置叫做槽（slot），每个槽都以一个整数命名（从 0 开始），每个槽可以放一个元素。


hash function

hash table 中元素与该元素所在槽位置之间的映射关系，叫做 hash function。hash function 的参数可以是 hash table 中的任意一个元素，而返回值是一个整数（范围在 0 到 槽的最大位置），代表该元素所在槽的位置。hash function 中都会有取模操作，这是因为函数的返回值需要在槽的最大范围内。


load factor

```
lambda = number_of_items / tablesize
```



## Hash Functions


完美哈希函数（perfect hash function）：每一个元素都能映射到一个独一无二的槽里，而不产生碰撞。

对于任意的一个元素集合，实际上并没有系统的方法能构造出完美哈希函数。不过幸运的是我们只需设计出能把 keys 尽可能均匀映射到 hash table 的槽里的 hash function 就可以了。

当设计或选择一个 hash function 时，应参考以下规则：
- 计算过程简单，可以快速得到结果
- 计算结果不能是随机的，对于同样的输入，应有同样的输出
- 如果 key 由多个部分组成，则每一部分都应对结果有贡献
- hash table 的尺寸大小应该是一个素数，这将产生更均匀的分布和更少的碰撞。



## rehashing

There is no way to know up front how many keys will be stored in the hash table.

We can start with a table of some given size and then grow or expand the table as needed to make room for more entries.

In practice, a hash table should be expanded before the _load factor_ reaches 80%.

A good rule of thumb to expand the table is at least double its size.



## Collision Resolution


### open addressing

One method for resolving collisions looks into the hash table and tires to find another open slot to hold the item that caused the collision. This collision resolution process is referred to as _open addressing_.

#### linear probing

linear probing starts at the original hash value position and then move in a sequential manner through the slots until we encounter the first slot that is empty

```
rehash(pos) = (pos + 1) % sizeoftable
```

##### clustering

A disadvantage to linear probing is the tendency for clustering; items become clustered in the table. 

This means that if many collisions occur at the same hash value, a number of surrounding slots will be filled by the linear probing resolution. This will have an impact on other items that are being inserted.


One way to deal with clustering is to extend the linear probing technique so that instead of looking sequentially for the next open slot, we _skip slots_, thereby more evenly distributing the items that have caused collisions. 


#### modified linear probing

```
rehash(pos) = (pos + skip) % sizeoftable
```

 It is important to note that the size of the “skip” must be such that all the slots in the table will eventually be visited. Otherwise, part of the table will be unused. To ensure this, it is often suggested that _the table size be a prime number_.
 
 
#### quadratic probing
 
 ```
 rehash(pos) = (pos + i * i) % sizeoftable
 ```
 
 quadratic probing uses a skip _consisting of successive perfect squares_.
 
 
#### double hashing
 
 ```
 rehash(pos) = (pos + i * hp(key)) % sizeoftable
 ```
 
where i is the ith probe in the sequence, i = 1, 2, . . . M − 1. pos is the home position, which is the index to which the key was originally mapped by the hash function.


###  separate chaining (closed addressing)
 
We can eliminate collisions entirely if we allow multiple keys to share the same table entry.

To accommodate multiple keys, linked lists can be used to store the individual keys that map to the same entry.

The linked lists are commonly referred to as chanins and this technique of collision resolution is known as _separate chaining_.

Separate chaining is also known as _open hashing_ since the keys are stored outside the table. The term _closed hashing_ is used when the keys are stored within the elements of the table.

The terms _closed addressing_ is to describe open hashing and _open addressing_ is to descirbe closed hashing. The use of the addressing terms refers to the possible locations of the keys in relation to the table entries.

Separate chaining has _a better average time_ than that for closed hashing. The drawback to separate chaining is the _need for additional storage_ used by the link fields in the nodes of the linked lists.



## efficiency analysis
the efficiency of the hash operations depends on:
- the hash function
- the size of the table
- the type of probe used to resolve collisions

The time required to perform the search is the main contributor to the overall time of the three hash table operations:
- searching
- insertions
- deletions

The hash operations only require an average time of O(1) when the load factor is between 1/2 and 2/3


For a more accurate result:

- for a successful search using open addressing with linear probing: the average number of comparisons is about `1/2(1 + 1/(1-lambda))`
- for a unsuccessful search using open addressing with linear probing: the average number of comparisons is about `1/2(1 + square(1/(1-lambda)))`
- for a successful search using closed addressing with chaining: the average number of comparisons is about `1 + lambda/2`
- for a unsuccessful search using closed addressing with chaining: the average number of comparisons is about `lambda`

