# 事件驱动与多线程

参考自 https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2523758

Something I'd like people to understand, at a very deep level: event-based async programming, and blocking thread-based programming, are fundamentally the same. The problem of maintaining your state in between event triggers is explicit in the first style; it's implicit, in the thread stack and CPU instruction pointer, in the second style. In the second style, it's the OS which is running the event loop, and it dispatches events by resuming a continuation - a continuation that starts by "returning" from the blocking call.
Much of the translation from blocking style to event-based style is moving the work of dispatching and looping from kernel to userland. Other ancillary benefits, like reduced address space usage by blocked threads, are in principle also achievable in a threading model - e.g. by storing stack frames on the heap and being more aggressive about collecting them (assuming GC).

Other benefits of async - such as overlapping work - are also fairly trivially possible with threading, though less deterministic.

The true benefit of event-oriented network programming may be simply in what it makes explicit vs implicit.

关于 `E_AGAIN`

They would return `E_AGAIN` after the data has been read or written in blocking mode. If select comes back and says "read is ready on socket 4" then user code does read on socket 4 and gets (say) 4K of data followed by E_AGAIN. Getting that 4K of data happens in a blocking mode. To make it non-blocking you would provide a pointer to your user space buffer to the kernel and it would determine when IO is ready _and_ proceed to put that data in the buffer.

On a nonblocking socket, the I/O operations you're talking about are simple u/k and k/u buffer copies.

Whether you have an event loop or not, disk I/O is often transparently blocking, even when you try to set descriptors nonblocking. But I/O operations on a nonblocking socket don't wait the process. If there's data in the buffer, you get the data; if there isn't, you get the error.